# SignalDB

The SignalDB is the name of the database that contains the conditions and preliminary characterizations
of the raw SETI data. You may use this information to help narrow your search of data to analyze, or
use the values as features in a machine-learning context. 

This database is generated by SETI at the time data are written to disk. 
They are delievered to you via the 
[/v1/aca/meta/{ra}/{dec}](#meta-data-and-location-of-candidate-events) endpoint. 

| Field        | Description           |
| :------------- |:--------------|
| uniqueid   |  Unique ID                                         |
| time       |  Date/Time of observation                          | 
| acttyp     |  Activity Type: initial or followup                |
| catalog    |  Target catalog name                               |
| tgtid      |  Target Number in Catalog                          |  
| ra2000hr   |  Right Ascension (hours)                           |
| dec2000deg |  Delination (degrees)                              |
| power      |  Raw Power Measure                                 |
| snr        |  Signal/Noise                                      |
| freqmhz    |  Start frequency of observed signal (MHz)          |
| drifthzs   |  Signal Drift (Hz/s)                               |
| widhz      |  Signal Bandwidth (Hz)                             |
| pol        |  Polarization of Signal                            |
| sigtyp     |  Signal Type                                       |
| pperiods   |  Pulse Period (s)                                  |   
| npul       |  Number of pulses                                  |   
| inttimes   |  Integration Time                                  |   
| tscpazdeg  |  Primary telescope azimuth direction (degrees)     |
| tscpeldeg  |  Primary telescope elevation direction (degrees)   |
| beamno     |  Beam signal number                                |
| sigclass   |  Signal Class                                      | 
| sigreason  |  Signal Reason                                     | 
| container |  The name of the Object Storage container in which the raw data is stored |
| objectname | The name of the object in Object Storage in which the raw data is stored |

#### Additional Comments on Fields

##### `time`
The date-time of the observation is recorded in ISO format 'yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ssZ'

##### `acttyp`

This is the "Activity Type" of the observation. There are a number of possible values:

  * `target`
  * `targetN-on`
  * `targetNoff`
  * `target5-on-nofollowup`
  * "other"

for N = 1 - 5 and where "other" could be a list of special activity types to designate
calibrations and special tests. 

When the ATA makes an initial observation of a candidate signal, the SonATA software then 
decides to look again for the signal. This second observation is called 'target1-on'. The ATA 
then looks *elsewhere*, called `target1off`. If a signal is **not** observed in `target1off`, 
the ATA then again looks at the original location. An observation of a candidate signal would 
then be called `target2-on`. This happens repeatedly. Each time a potential candidate signal is 
re-observed, the N is increased, up to a maximum of 5. Search your data for `acttyp` for "large" N.

More information is found on the "How Observing Works" tab at http://setiquest.info/.


##### `catalog` and `tgtid`
 
Each observed location in the sky corresponds to a particular known object, or target. Each target 
has an identification number, which is stored in a particular external database or catalog. T

##### `power`

The total power of the signal (in arbitrary units relative to the average noise)

##### `snr`

The signal-to-noise ratio is only reported for candidate events.

##### `freqmhz`

This is the measured frequency, in MHz, of the signal observed in the spectrogram at `t=0`. 

##### `drifthz`

This is the Doppler drift of the observed signal. This is due to an acceleration between the ATA
and the source of the signal. 

##### `widhz`

This is the size of the signal bandwidth -- it's how wide the signal appears on the spectrogram. 

##### `pol`

The primary polarity of the observed signal. 

Values can be

  * left
  * right
  * both
  * mixed

It should be noted that `left` and `right` polarizations are misnomers. It was the intention of the SETI group
to observe left- and right-circularly polarized signals. However, that never came to fruition. Instead the 
antenna at the ATA observe a long the horizontal and vertical polarizations (relative to the Earth's surface
at the observatory). The `left` and `right` direcitons are really the horizontal and vertical polarization, respectively.

##### `sigtyp`

The signal type can be 

  * CwP = carrier wave power 
  * CwC = carrier wave coherent 
  * Pul = pulsed signal

##### `pperiods`

The observed periodicity of the pulsed signal. Only for `sigtyp = Pul`.

##### `npul`

Number of pulses observed. Only for `sigtyp = Pul`.

##### `inttimes`

Total time of observation that resulted in this signal. This should correspond to the total amount of time
in the spectrogram. 

##### `tscpazdeg` and `tscpeldeg`

These tell the direction of the primary telescope in the ATA array at the time of observation. 
The `tscpazdeg` refers to the azimuthal direction relative to North and `tscpeldeg` is the elevation
above the local horizon. 


##### `beamno`

The ATA can record signals from three different locations in the sky, called beams. This is a record of 
which beam produced the signal. 

##### `sigclass`

This is the Signal Classification. For achive-compamp files, which are the only types of files we are currently
making available, this value will always be `Candidate`. If we make other file types available in the future, 
they will be labeled `RFI` (radio frequency interference) or `Unkn` (unknown). 

##### `sigreason`

This is the justification for the classification. The values could be

  * PsPwrT. Passed power threshold, passed on to candidate status
  * Dft2Hi. Drift too high, rejected
  * 2MnyCnd. Too many candidates, the system flooded and aborted, rejected
  * ZeroDft. Signal has essentially zero drift, therefore most likely terrestrial, rejected
  * SNtInCh. Signal drifted out of channel, could not follow up, unresolved
  * RctRFI. Signal was found in recent RFI database, rejected

Since all of the archive-compamp files are `Candidate` events, the `sigreason` for those files `PsPwrT`. 

##### `candreason`

This is sub-categorization for `Candidate` signals

* PsPwrT. For pulses, signal passes on to next follow up
* PsCohD. For carrier wave, signal passes on to a follow up
* ZeroDft. See above, rejected
* SnMulBm. Seen in multiple beams, rejected
* Confrm. Signal seen in only one beam above threshold, pass on to a follow up
* Dft2Hi. See above, rejected
* SNoSigl. Signal disappeared and was not seen in secondary beam either. No follow up, but not rejected. 
* SSawSig. Signal disappeared and was seen in secondary beam, rejected.
* NoSignl. Signal disappeared in followup. No follow up, but not rejected 
* RConfrm. Signal was confirmed in followup, passes on to next follow up.
* SeenOff. Sognal was seen in an off observation, rejected 
* RctRFI. See above


##### `container` and `objectname`

The raw SETI data for this project are stored in an IBM Object Storage instance on IBM Bluemix. 
In Object Storage, "objects" are stored in containers. Objects can be arbitrary "bags of bits". In
our particular case, however, we store each compamp or archive-compamp file as a separate object. 
(*We do this for a special reason due to the nature of this project, but if you're using
Object Storage yourself, you'll probably want to consider storing data inside large objects, since
this is a more efficient way for Spark to ingest the data.*)


